# Submitting to Manuscript Central

1. Open the issue on JIRA
2. Click on the "Submit to MC" transition
3. In the pop-up, you should have all the necessary information
   - Note: links in the pop-up window are not clickable: double-click, then use right-click to "Open in New Tab"
   - `MCEntryURL`  has the link to Manuscript Central (MC) in order to submit
   - `Manuscript Central Identifier` to find the manuscript
   - `MCRecommendationV2` (should have) has the information to choose in MC
   - `Git working location` has the information to clone the repository
4. If necessary, clone the Bitbucket repository associated with the issue 
   -  If not already created, make a `REPLICATION.pdf` file from the markdown `REPLICATION.md` using Visual Studio Code, then commit and push!
5. Open the Manuscript Central link (double-click, right-click, open in new tab)
   1. Let LastPass fill in password to access Manuscript Central
   2. Click on the review tab and identify the MC number of the paper
   3. Select "Continue Review"
   4. Always click "Yes" when asked: Would you be willing to review a revision of this manuscript?
   5. Select the recommendation as noted in the Issue (`MCRecommendationV2`)
   6. Copy-paste the "Summary" part from `REPLICATION.md` in the comments to the author. Add "Details are in the full report."
   7. Select and upload the `REPLICATION.pdf`, click on "For author and  editor"
   8. Re-verify all information
   9. Click on "Submit"
6. Back in the pop-up, 
   1. Click on "Submit to MC"
   
## For R&Rs
- For R&R's, the AEA editorial office has not changed the criteria for our response. Your options will be:
   - Accept 
   - Revise and Resubmit (this is synonymous to `Conditional Accept`)
   - No Recommendation
   - Reject 
 The recommendation should be one of these options 

# Preparing Deposit for Publication
For "Accept" or "Accept with changes", we move the issue to "Prepare for publication". Otherwise, you are done.

## FOR ACCEPT WITH CHANGES

1. Open the issue on Jira
2. Click on the "Wait for response on openICPSR" transition to "Pending openICPSR changes"
3. Look for a file "for openICPSR.md" in the repository.
4. on openICPSR,
   - Do NOT post the standard acceptance language. 
   - Subject line: *Please make the following changes (AEAREP-xxx)*
   - Message content: 
     - the contents of the repository-specific "for openICPSR.md"
     - then the following lines: 
   > Details in the full report, which you will receive via Manuscript Central. Once completed, do not resubmit to Manuscript Central. Please use the openICPSR Project Communication log, specifying AEAREP-xxx.

## FOR ACCEPT:
1. Open the issue on Jira
2. Click on the "Prepare for publication" transition
3. In the pop-up, you should have all the necessary information.
   - Note: links in the pop-up window are not clickable: double-click, then use right-click to "Open in New Tab"
   - `Code provenance` should point to openICPSR. If not, go to the final step.
   - Make a note of the issue number again.
4. on openICPSR,
   - remove any RAs from the Share list (leave anybody who is on there!)
   - post to the Communication log a standard message with the last few lines from https://raw.githubusercontent.com/AEADataEditor/aea-de-guidance/master/sample-language-report.md (starting with "AEAREP-xxx Data and Code Deposit for MCNumberXXX accepted"). This generates an email message (copied to all admin privs) with the same text.
5. In your email, 
   - the email generated by openICPSR needs to be forwarded to *Jira queue email* with the **issue number** (AEAREP-xxx) manually inserted into the subject line, and anything before the "From:" deleted. This will add it to the ticket.
6. Back in the Jira popup, finalize by clicking "OK". The issue should be moved to "Pending Publication" (which reassigns it to Jenna at the AEA editorial office).
